SpeciesDistributionModeling
===========================
README 21 May 2014

Configuration:
	First, initialize user-configurable variables in Config.sh. Required input files
	include:

	Metadata: this is a csv file containing ...

	Samples: the samples should be listed in a csv file and given one per line with 
	three fields: 
		-the sample ID 
		-list of OTU's separated by semi-colons
		-abundance	
	e.g. 
		P782-1,Bacteria;Proteobacteria;Alphaproteobacteria,2

	Shape files: The user should also provide a text dump of shape files for their region of 
	interest (stored in the Data/Masks directory for the example dataset). sRasterMaskPath
	should be initialized to the shape file (.shp.txt).
	The files that should be included in this directory are ...
	These files can be generated by ....
	
	Set sRasterDir with the directory where rasters will be located. 
	Raster files ... (should end in .nc?)

	Set rgsTaxon to a list of taxa to be analyzed in a space-separated list in
	parentheses. For each taxon given, a corresponding response variable should 
	be provided in rgsResponseVar. Options for response variables include ...

To run:
	./SDM.sh <project_name> 

	<project_name> is the directory that will be created to store the output.
	If the directory "Output/<project_name>" exists, the program will quit
	so as not to overwrite prior results.


Output: 
	A subdirectory in output with your project name will be created. Inside of this
	directory will be a directory for each taxon x response variable set in the 
	Config.sh file. Each subdirectory will have the following files:

	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.coef - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.cval - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.data - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.log - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.mess - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.modl - this file contains ...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.nc - this file contains input for the Panoply program that can be
		imported with File>Open... I've forgotten the real commands. I couldn't get it to
		work a second time...
	<taxon>.<var>.<mode>.vars - this file contains ...



